''' $Id: uudecode.man,v 3.0.3.3 1993/08/25 17:05:04 ram Exp $
'''
''' $Log: uudecode.man,v $
''' Revision 3.0.3.3  1993/08/25  17:05:04  ram
''' patch12: cleanup checkin for RCS 5.6
'''
''' Revision 3.0.3.2  91/04/07  18:52:12  ram
''' patch1: merged official cshar 3.0 into beta version
''' 
''' Revision 3.0.3.1  91/01/21  11:39:18  ram
''' 3.0 baseline (ram).
''' 
'''
.TH UUDECODE 1L
.SH NAME
uudecode \- reconstruct a binary file from printable encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uudecode
[
.B \-v
] [ 
.I input
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uudecode
translates a text file created by
.IR uuencode (1L)
into a replica of the original (binary) file.
It reads the named file (or standard input if none is given), and skips
any headers or trailers that might surround the data, and parses
the data to create the file named in the message.
No attempt is made to verify the file to be created, or the permission
modes to be assigned to it, so it is wise to manually inspect the
input before feeding it into
.IR uudecode .
On
.\" NOSTRICT "Unmatched .SM"
.SM UNIX ,
this can be done by the following command:
.RS
prompt% grep '^begin'
.I input
.RE
.PP
Several versions of the original
.I uuencode
and
.I uudecode
programs are available and have been widely distributed; luckily, all
the changes seem to have been made in a compatible manner.
This distribution does not provide all the features of other versions,
just the basic format and the ``translation table.''
For more detailed information, see the
.I uuencode
manual page.
.PP
If more than one data file appears in the input, all others but the
first one are ignored.
.PP
Note that the encoded file is about 35% bigger (three bytes become four,
plus control information) than the original.
.PP
The ``\-v'' option prints out the current version and exits.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
uuencode(1L).
