''' $Id: uuencode.man,v 3.0.3.3 1993/08/25 17:05:06 ram Exp $
'''
''' $Log: uuencode.man,v $
''' Revision 3.0.3.3  1993/08/25  17:05:06  ram
''' patch12: cleanup checkin for RCS 5.6
'''
''' Revision 3.0.3.2  91/04/07  18:52:17  ram
''' patch1: merged official cshar 3.0 into beta version
''' 
''' Revision 3.0.3.1  91/01/21  11:39:49  ram
''' 3.0 baseline (ram).
''' 
'''
.TH UUENCODE 1L
.SH NAME
uuencode \- decode a binary file into printable encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuencode
[
.B \-v
]
.I input
.I output
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuencode
reads the named binary input file and writes a printable version of it
to the named output file.
The output file is an ordinary text file and can be edited by any
text editor to change the destination name, add introductory matter,
and the like.
In particular, it is very common to use
.I uuencode
and
.I uudecode
to send binary files around as electronic mail, Usenet, or general
bulletin-board messages.
.PP
Several versions of the original
.I uuencode
and
.I uudecode
programs are available and have been widely distributed; luckily, all
the changes seem to have been made in a compatible manner.
This distribution does not provide all the features of other versions,
just the basic format and the ``translation table.''
No per-line or per-file checksumming is performed, and the
.\" NOSTRICT "Unmatched .SM"
.SM UNIX
\&``tilde'' syntax to represent a home directory (e.g.,
.I \&~rsalz/vmunix
represents the file named
.I vmunix
in the home directory of the user
.IR rsalz )
is not supported.
Only one file can be sent per message; use
.IR shar (1L)
to bundle multiple binary files.
.PP
.I "describe translation table"
.PP
Note that the encoded file is about 35% bigger (three bytes become four,
plus control information) than the original.
.PP
The ``\-v'' option prints out the current version and exits.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
uudecode(1L).
